Listful and mote-like, ashes float up from the previous night’s campfire. Damp clings to the Wayfinder’s cheek as they rise from sleep. Repose for a half second, then flight. No sound as they cross the particulate and tamped floor, and scale the notches formed in the flush bark. No sound as they retrieve a now very wet sling-bag from a favoured branch. No sound as they settle beside the Theorist’s slim frame, and steal ephemeral embrace. Ascension now. The Wayfinder passes the stores of fruit and flesh, as well as the sand, bundled well. The notches get slimmer, but the trunk does not. A notch-maker is produced, only just beginning to tarnish, and they set themselves to work. The wood is, as always, soft and forgiving. Many notches can be made in a short time, yet the tree’s sap quickly makes the tool unusable. It cannot be employed again until the tree’s blood is burned from its blade. A terrible inconvenience, but it's the only notch-maker that the two have. At least, until another is found. The tree will provide. The Wayfinder drops the tool, careful to aim far from the Theorist, still in meditation down below. It is time for the day to begin.

A breath. Two. Ascension again. Their dark, toned, and trusted arms a guide to the fractal branches as they climb. Over the last month, the branches had begun to thin as the pair climbed higher each day. If they are fortunate, another platform will be reached today. If not, they will have to spend another night on the same flatbough. The Theorist expects this. Begrudgingly, the Wayfinder does as well. The Theorist is rarely inaccurate. Every ten branches passed, they drop a handful of deep red sand. When the red dust ceases to fall on the pensive one below, they will know the strong one above will soon return. The Wayfinder becomes lighter and lighter. After nearly fifty branches, they’ve run out of sand. Still no further it seems, to the top. This is alright. The days are short, and the tree is tall. Darkness falls. Hard this time. Harder each evening. They make a mark, bloody, on the flat bark, and begin to descend. Very soon, they reach the firm and temperate platform. The Theorist is already sleeping, though lightly. The fire is lit as always, the notch-maker burning, and food retrieved. The Wayfinder tumbles slowly and carefully to the floor, and pulls up behind the sleeper. A tangle of hair and legs is achieved, and so is comfort, naturally. Breath escapes the climber’s lips as they slow their mind and body. The Theorist shuffles backward for closer embrace, and is met with it. Silence and near sleep for the two as the rain begins to hint at their cheeks.

“Hey”, says the Wayfinder.
“Hello”, says the Theorist.
“I like you”
“I like you too”

-Ritual, a short story by O